README.md, before:

# Vagrant LA(T)MP Stack

**Vagrant CentOS 7 + Apache HTTP + Apache Tomcat 7 + MySQL + PHP5.6**

## Usage

Manually [Install Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com) and [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads). **OR**, macOS users, install using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/):

```bash
$ brew cask install virtualbox vagrant vagrant-manager
# Bonus! Use this to update previously installed casks:
$ brew cask outdated | xargs brew cask reinstall
```

Create a directory for your Vagrant projects. I put mine here:

```text
~/dev/vagrant/<name of project>
```

Navigate to project directory and install this code:

1. Download as a [`zip`](../../archive/master.zip).
1. Clone it: `$ git clone https://github.com/mhulse/vagrant-latmp.git`.
1. Fork it and clone: `$ git clone git@github.com:<username>/vagrant-latmp.git`.

As a convenience to **macOS** users, from the command line, navigate to `vagrant/<name of project>` directory and run:

```bash
$ bash <(curl -sL https://git.io/vQbL5)
```

Next, from within your project directory, run:

```bash
$ vagrant up
```

This command will download (first time), configure and start the virtual machine. Note that several useful “[synced folders](https://www.vagrantup.com/docs/synced-folders/basic_usage.html)” will appear at the project’s root:

- `http/www/` (`/var/www/`)
- `http/conf.d/` (`/etc/httpd/conf.d/`)
- `tomcat/webapps/` (`/var/lib/tomcat/webapps/`)
- `tomcat/conf/` (`/etc/tomcat/`)
- `tomcat/log/` (`/var/log/tomcat/`)

> Synced folders enable Vagrant to sync a folder on the host machine to the guest machine, allowing you to continue working on your project's files on your host machine, but use the resources in the guest machine to compile or run your project.

Once the VM is up, you can ssh into the current running Vagrant box:

```bash
$ vagrant ssh
```

You are now connected to the Vagrant box at `/home/vagrant`.

Use this to disconnect:

```bash
$ logout
```

… and then this when you are done developing:

```bash
# Terminate the use of any resources by the virtual machine:
$ vagrant destroy
```

**Note:** The vagrant destroy command does not actually remove the downloaded box file. To completely remove the box file, you can use the `vagrant box remove` command.

## Vagrant tips

Here’s a few useful commands:

```bash
# Start VM:
$ vagrant up
# Reload, no provision:
$ vagrant reload
# Reload and provision:
$ vagrant reload --provision
# SSH into VM:
$ vagrant ssh
# Stop VM:
$ vagrant halt
```

When running `vagrant up`, Vagrant will install dependencies as defined by the provisioning script(s); this is called “[Automatic Provisioning](https://www.vagrantup.com/intro/getting-started/provisioning.html)”.

If you make any modifications to the [`Vagrantfile`](Vagrantfile), `reload` should be called.

If you make changes to your `Vagrantfile`’s provisioner’s (i.e., [`bootstrap.sh`](bootstrap.sh)), you’ll want to call `reload --provision`.

A full list of Vagrant’s CLI commands can be found here: [Command-Line Interface](https://www.vagrantup.com/docs/cli/).

## Links

Big ups:

- [Vagrant PHP7: A simple Vagrant LAMP setup running PHP7](https://github.com/spiritix/vagrant-php7)
- [Vagrant Skeleton: A base CentOS vagrant setup good for SilverStripe and other PHP frameworks](https://github.com/BetterBrief/vagrant-skeleton/blob/master/Vagrantfile).

## Legal

Copyright © 2017 [Michael Hulse](http://mky.io).

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the “License”); you may not use this work except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License in the LICENSE file, or at:

[http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an “AS IS” BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

<img src="https://github.global.ssl.fastly.net/images/icons/emoji/octocat.png">

Commit message:

Updated readme with hosts info (closes #5)

README.md, after:

# Vagrant LA(T)MP Stack

**Vagrant CentOS 7 + Apache HTTP + Apache Tomcat 7 + MySQL + PHP5.6**

## Usage

Manually [Install Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com) and [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads). **OR**, macOS users, install using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/):

```bash
$ brew cask install virtualbox vagrant vagrant-manager
# Bonus! Use this to update previously installed casks:
$ brew cask outdated | xargs brew cask reinstall
```

Create a directory for your Vagrant projects; I put mine here:

```text
~/dev/vagrant/<name of project>
```

Install this code:

1. Download as a [`zip`](../../archive/master.zip).
1. Clone it: `$ git clone https://github.com/mhulse/vagrant-latmp.git`.
1. Fork it and clone: `$ git clone git@github.com:<username>/vagrant-latmp.git`.

As a convenience to **macOS** users, from the command line, navigate to `vagrant/<name of project>` directory and run:

```bash
$ bash <(curl -sL https://git.io/vQbL5)
```

Next, from within your project directory, run:

```bash
$ vagrant up
```

This command will download (first time), configure and start the virtual machine. Note that several useful “[synced folders](https://www.vagrantup.com/docs/synced-folders/basic_usage.html)” will appear at the project’s root:

- `http/www/` (`/var/www/`)
- `http/conf.d/` (`/etc/httpd/conf.d/`)
- `tomcat/webapps/` (`/var/lib/tomcat/webapps/`)
- `tomcat/conf/` (`/etc/tomcat/`)
- `tomcat/log/` (`/var/log/tomcat/`)

> Synced folders enable Vagrant to sync a folder on the host machine to the guest machine, allowing you to continue working on your project's files on your host machine, but use the resources in the guest machine to compile or run your project.

Once the VM is up, you can ssh into the current running Vagrant box:

```bash
$ vagrant ssh
```

You are now connected to the Vagrant box at `/home/vagrant`.

Use this to disconnect:

```bash
$ logout
```

… and then this when you are done developing:

```bash
# Terminate the use of any resources by the virtual machine:
$ vagrant destroy
```

**Note:** The vagrant destroy command does not actually remove the downloaded box file. To completely remove the box file, you can use the `vagrant box remove` command.

## Demos

On the “host” computer (i.e. **NOT** the VM), add these lines to your hosts file:

```text
192.168.100.100	http.local
192.168.100.100	tomcat.local
```
On macOS, the hosts file is located at `/private/etc/hosts`; after editing this file, run `dscacheutil -flushcache` from the command line.

In your browser, visit <http://http.local> and <http://tomcat.local> to view the demo Apache HTTP and Tomcat pages, respectively.

## Vagrant tips

Here’s a few useful commands:

```bash
# Start VM:
$ vagrant up
# Reload, no provision:
$ vagrant reload
# Reload and provision:
$ vagrant reload --provision
# SSH into VM:
$ vagrant ssh
# Stop VM:
$ vagrant halt
```

When running `vagrant up`, Vagrant will install dependencies as defined by the provisioning script(s); this is called “[Automatic Provisioning](https://www.vagrantup.com/intro/getting-started/provisioning.html)”.

If you make any modifications to the [`Vagrantfile`](Vagrantfile), `reload` should be called.

If you make changes to your `Vagrantfile`’s provisioner’s (i.e., [`bootstrap.sh`](bootstrap.sh)), you’ll want to call `reload --provision`.

A full list of Vagrant’s CLI commands can be found here: [Command-Line Interface](https://www.vagrantup.com/docs/cli/).

## Links

Big ups:

- [Vagrant PHP7: A simple Vagrant LAMP setup running PHP7](https://github.com/spiritix/vagrant-php7)
- [Vagrant Skeleton: A base CentOS vagrant setup good for SilverStripe and other PHP frameworks](https://github.com/BetterBrief/vagrant-skeleton/blob/master/Vagrantfile).

## Legal

Copyright © 2017 [Michael Hulse](http://mky.io).

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the “License”); you may not use this work except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License in the LICENSE file, or at:

[http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an “AS IS” BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

<img src="https://github.global.ssl.fastly.net/images/icons/emoji/octocat.png">
